Chris: 
Welcome to the TED Interview.
I'm Chris Anderson.
This is the podcast series where I sit down with a TED speaker,
and we get to dive much deeper into their ideas
than was possible during their TED talk.
Today our guest is Islamic scholar Dalia Mogahed.
She is uniquely qualified to share with us insights into the state of Islam
in the world today.
When 9/11 happened, Dalia threw herself into a research project with Gallup,
in which 50,000 Muslims were interviewed around the world
about their lives, their dreams,
the current state of their religion.
That research became a book called "Who Speaks for Islam?"
And then in 2016, Dalia gave her TED Talk,
called "What it's like to be a Muslim in America."
The talk was an attempt to diffuse the Islamophobia
that is rife in so many parts of the world.

Dalia: 
What do you think when you look at me?
A woman of faith? An expert?
Maybe even a sister.
Or -- oppressed, brainwashed, a terrorist.
If some of your perceptions were negative, I don't really blame you.
That's just how the media has been portraying people who look like me.

Chris: 
It was certainly an incredibly disarming talk.
She got a big standing ovation
and changed, I think, how a lot of people thought about Muslims.
Of course, Islam is often criticized for the actions taken in its name.
So my goal with this conversation is to understand Islam better,
while at the same time, not shying away from hard questions.
And so, Dalia, I'm delighted to have you here today.
That really was a remarkable talk you gave.
I guess it's so tempting to categorize people we don't know.
In that talk, you helped us know you.
What was the reaction to the talk?

Dalia: 
Well, I --
I really wanted that talk to be a gift.
I wanted it to be a contribution
to the audience's understanding.
I wanted to be up there to give them the gift of a new idea.
And what came out of it was almost like a magical reception.
I mean, I had so many people tell me how much they learned
and how much they really changed.
I remember one particular person which, right after the talk,
actually at the conference,
he was there as security for one of your guests, I'm not sure who,
and he said, "I think that I was really struggling
with some of these ideas you were talking about.
I think that I was really suffering from some Islamophobia,
but your talk completely changed my mind,
and I want to thank you."
And I've gotten these messages from all over the world since the talk.
I remember one I got from Jerusalem.
A Jewish Israeli wrote me
and said that she related so much to the ideas of the talk,
and how oftentimes her father, who's an Orthodox Jew,
is mistaken for a Muslim when he's traveling in Europe,
and he himself, ironically, has suffered from Islamophobia.
So I thought it was a great opportunity to build a bridge,
to reveal a little bit more about the humanity of ordinary people,
of Muslims.
And it was really important to me at the end of the talk
to make sure that no one thought I was an exception,
that no one could sort of dismiss my experience
as just that one person, as the exception to all others.
I really do believe that I am entirely ordinary,
and my story is so representative of so many other people. 