Chris: 
Hi, everyone.
Welcome to the TED Interview.
This is Chris Anderson,
the guy lucky enough to run TED.
Here at TED, we're borderline obsessed with the power of ideas.
Ideas are such weird things.
They get inside your head,
and they might just give you a little piece of knowledge,
or they might actually really reshape how you see the world.
They can even change who you are.
They're this powerful common currency
that humans have and can share with each other.
Now, we normally share them in the form of TED Talks,
which are recorded on a stage,
12, 15, 18 minutes at a time.
But here's the thing about ideas:
they don't just land perfectly formed.
They want to be critiqued,
played with, iterated on,
and sometimes that takes longer than 18 minutes.
So in this series, I'll be having hour-long conversations
with some of the most compelling TED speakers
to dive deeper, learn more.
And there is no better medium to do that dance than podcasting.
On this first episode, my guest is author Elizabeth Gilbert.
Fifteen years ago, in response to a personal crisis,
she took a trip around the world and wrote about it.
And that book, "Eat Pray Love," became a global phenomenon,
topping best-seller lists for years.
In 2009, Liz came to the TED stage
to talk about how hard it was to follow that success with another book.
So Liz started a research project where she explored the question:
How do other societies conceive of creativity?
And once again, a very personal quest for Liz,
a desire to understand how creativity happens,
turned into inspiration for millions of viewers
and a book called "Big Magic."
Liz has always been open to new possibilities.
Two summers ago, she announced the amicable ending of her marriage
and a new relationship with her best friend,
the writer Rayya Elias,
who had been diagnosed with terminal cancer.
Rayya passed away in January of this year.
Liz, that fact makes it all the more astonishing
that you're willing to come now and spend time with me.
Welcome.

Elizabeth: 
I'm so happy to be here with you, Chris.
Thank you so much.
You always invite me to things and I always say yes,
because I always know it's going to be good.

Chris: 
Well, I can't imagine what you've been through
these past couple years,
but let's perhaps not start there.
Why don't we start with the subject of your TED Talk
and the subject of "Big Magic,"
which is that these insights that you have around creativity,
they are not the usual story we hear about creativity.
In the TED Talk, you put out there this notion that creative genius
wasn't something that people have.
It's not like there are ordinary people and then there are these geniuses
who have this special ability to do extraordinary things,
that genius is actually something that comes from the outside.
Talk about that.

Elizabeth: 
Well, I want to start by saying that when you describe
my ideas about creativity as being unusual,
I agree with you,
but only to the extent that they are unusual
only very recently in history.
My ideas about creativity are actually very classical,
and they're very normal, and they're very human
for how human beings regarded creativity for nearly all of human history
until, basically, the middle of the 19th century.
You know, what happened was there was this really toxic revolution in creativity
that I like to blame on the German Romantics
that put the individual at the center of the story,
a very narcissistic version of creativity,
a very Great Man-based version of creativity:
it all came from you,
it all came from you, from your talent, from your greatness, from your efforts,
and, generally speaking, in a very romanticized way,
from your struggle and your pain and your suffering.
So what became idealized was the suffering itself
as the badge of honor of a creative person,
which all you have to do is look at any of the arts
in modern Western society to see how idealized that still is.
And I don't personally believe that that's how human beings made art
for most of civilization and for most of humanity.
I think that art and creativity have always been a conversation
between a human being and a mystery,
a mystery that they wanted to connect to.
And that mystery is called "inspiration," which literally means "the in breath,"
you know, that something comes to you.
And what I find fascinating is,
even the most didactically rational, empirical thinkers in the world,
when they talk about where their ideas come from,
they tend to use the ancient language of inspiration.
Even they do.
They say, "This idea came to me."
That's still how we say it.
But if you were to nail them down on it,
they would be like, "No, it came from me."
And I'm like, "Well, I'm not sure it didn't come to you."
So that's where it all begins for me. 