Chris:
Welcome to the TED Interview.
I'm Chris Anderson,
and this is the podcast series where I sit down with a TED speaker,
and we get to dive much deeper into their ideas
than was possible during their TED Talk.
Today, I couldn't be more excited,
because I'm here with none other than Sir Ken Robinson.
Sir Ken is the man responsible for the most-viewed TED Talk of all time.
It's been seen more than 50 million times now,
a talk called "Do Schools Kill Creativity?"
He recorded it back in 2006.
It was one of the first six TED Talks that we ever released,
and probably that talk did as much as any other
to really put TED Talks as a whole on the map.

Ken:
I heard a great story recently,
of a little girl who was in a drawing lesson.
She was six, and she was at the back drawing.
And the teacher said, "This little girl hardly ever paid attention,
and in this drawing lesson, she did."
And the teacher was fascinated.
She went over to her, and she said, "What are you drawing?"
And the girl said, "I'm drawing a picture of God."
And the teacher said, "But nobody knows what God looks like."
And the girl said, "They will in a minute."

Chris:
The idea he spoke about
seemed to really strike a nerve with people.
It felt as if millions and millions of people around the world
had had this experience of being at school
and somehow, their own creativity not being heard or recognized
or felt or developed properly.

Ken:
I believe this passionately, that we don't grow into creativity,
we grow out of it;
or rather, we get educated out of it.

Chris:
Sir Ken has been a scholar of education
pretty much all his life: as a professor, a policy advisor
and an author.
And I'm so excited today to have a chance to ask him more about his ideas.
Sir Ken Robinson, welcome.

Ken:
It's a real pleasure, Chris, thank you.

Chris:
Why don't we start by finding out a bit about you and your own education.

Ken: Well, I'm from Liverpool.
I was born there in 1950.
I'm one of seven children.
We grew up with no money. We weren't aware of it.

Chris:
Which one, by the way?

Ken: I'm number five.

Chris:
Number five. So you had to really carve out some attention in the family.

Ken:
Well, yes. I mean, my first three siblings all have middle names,
and my parents kind of ran out of steam
by the time they got to my end of the list,
and I was just glad not to be called "Five."
(Laughter)
So I grew up there,
and I had no idea growing up what I might ever go on to do,
or if I would ever go on to do anything at all.
So it's always been a big theme in the work I do that we create our own lives.
It doesn't really matter where you start from.

Chris:
As a child, you were hit by quite a severe illness.
Will you talk about that?

Ken:
Yeah. Until I was four,
my father was convinced I was going to be the family soccer player.
I showed an early and precocious talent for it, evidently.
I was strong and quick.
I had good eye-hand coordination,
and my dad had been a semi-professional football player himself.
But in the early '50s, there was an epidemic of poliomyelitis,
which spread right across Europe and North America,
and I got it, yes.
So at the age of four,
I was in hospital with polio.
I was in for eight months,
and I was paralyzed overnight, pretty much.
And I was thrown into the world of special education. 