Chris:
Welcome to the TED Interview.
I'm Chris Anderson.
This is the podcast series where I sit down with a TED speaker,
and we get to dive much deeper into their ideas
than was possible during their TED Talk.
Today, it's an absolute delight to have with me Robin Steinberg.
Robin's a public defense lawyer
who is working to disrupt America's system of cash bail.
And she is a force of nature.
(Recording) Robin Steinberg: Look, we all know the shocking numbers.
The United States incarcerates more people per capita
than almost any nation on the planet.
But what you may not know
is that on any given night in America,
almost half a million people go to sleep in those concrete jail cells,
who have not been convicted of anything.
These mothers and fathers and sons and daughters
are there for one reason and one reason only:
they cannot afford to pay the price of their freedom.
CA: Robin is out to change this.
She's being backed by an initiative from TED
called the "Audacious Project,"
which offers significant funding for truly bold ideas.
Her idea is as bold as they get,
and we're going to be talking about all of this in the next hour.
I'm telling you, once you have met Robin, you cannot get her out of your head.
Robin, welcome.

Robin:
Thank you. It's nice to be here.

Chris: 
Robin, I'd love to start with your own story.
How did you become a public defender, even?

Robin: 
So, I went to law school many, many years ago,
thinking I wanted to be a women's rights litigator.
I was committed to that idea.
I got to law school, and I began to work in a women's prison
and was so struck by the conditions of jail,
why people were in jail,
who was in jail --
all black and brown women from low-income communities here in New York.
I'd listen to their stories, which have stuck with me my whole career.
They felt railroaded by the system.
They felt like they didn't have advocates that cared.
They had very low opinions of their public defenders,
which got me interested in what was going on in the criminal justice system.
So my third year in law school, I enrolled in a criminal defense clinic,
and I began to represent people in Manhattan criminal court,
and quite frankly,
I think I stepped foot in that courtroom my very first day,
and I never looked back.

Chris: 
Talk about holistic public defense. What does that mean?

Robin: 
I started my public defender career in a traditional public defender office
in the Legal Aid Society of Nassau County,
and then later, I transferred into the Legal Aid Society in New York City.
And I loved the work; I loved everybody I was working with,
I thought my colleagues were incredible,
I thought the clients were inspiring in the face of all odds,
and I loved representing people in courtrooms.
But I also could always see the gaps in what we were doing.
I saw the disconnect between the communities that clients came from
and the people that were defending them.
I saw the gaps in what kind of representation we were providing.
When clients would sit across the table
and I would be focusing on their criminal case,
and they would continually ask me questions about their housing
or about their kids
or about something else that was on their mind,
I realized that an arrest was never just an arrest,
and that there were these other issues that were both driving people
into the criminal legal system,
but also a whole host of collateral consequences for that arrest,
and that people were oftentimes concerned more about that
than the actual criminal case in front of us.
So I began to think there has to be more to this picture.

Chris: 
So effectively,
you couldn't effectively defend them as a public defender
without paying attention to some of these other issues.
What did that actually look like?
Did that mean that you would sort of go from legal work
into social assistance of some kind?
How did you actually do that?

Robin: 
So, I think really dedicated public defenders in any office,
whether they're holistic or not holistic,
try to do the extra work beyond the criminal case.
So, of course, it meant focusing on the burden of proof
and the evidence against the client on the criminal case
and working out either a disposition or going to trial,
but it also meant sometimes picking up the phone
and calling the housing authority;
picking up the phone and calling the child welfare worker
that was knocking on my client's door, trying to take their kids from them
because of their arrest;
intervening in advocacy ways that are nontraditional
and not in the lane of criminal defense in the way we think about it,
but that are 100 percent connected to the criminal case.
These systems all talk to each other,
and if we as public defenders weren't actually providing advocacy and counsel
in those other areas,
the system was going to win. 