Chris: 
Welcome to the TED Interview.
I'm Chris Anderson,
and this is the podcast series where I sit down with a TED speaker
and we get to dive much deeper into their ideas
than was possible during their TED Talk.
My guest today is Sam Harris,
philosopher, neuroscientist, author, podcaster.
Sam has been at the heart of many of the most provocative conversations
out there today.
Politically, I would place him at what you might call the radical center,
a stern critic of Donald Trump, but also of political correctness, for example.
He has infuriated people on both left and right
in almost equal measure,
but he has also delighted many, many people
because of his clarity of thought and his fearlessness
in how he expresses those thoughts.
Sam's podcast, "Waking Up," is superpopular --
I'm a regular listener --
and he's also famed for his book called "The Moral Landscape."
That was the subject of his first TED Talk.

Sam: 
Most people, probably, here,
think that science will never answer
the most important questions in human life,
questions like what is worth living for, what is worth dying for,
what constitutes a good life.
So I'm going to argue that this is an illusion,
that the separation between science and human values is an illusion,
and actually quite a dangerous one at this point in human history.

Chris: 
So the debate is over the nature of morality.
Specifically, is there such a thing as objective moral truth?
Or is morality inherently subjective,
in which case all moral statements
are ultimately just statements about the values
an individual or a culture happens to hold?
So let's give an example here.
I mean, look, if I say something like, "It's wrong to lie,"
or "We should all stop eating animals,"
are those ultimately just your personal moral values?
Or might there be a sense in which they can objectively be judged
to be true or false?
If you believe in God, there's an easy enough answer to this question.
Good is what God has revealed to us is good.
He's created human beings with consciences
and with a holy book that sets out what is right and what is wrong.
But most modern philosophers, academic scientists,
don't think you can outsource morality to God.
They would say there is a fundamental difference in the world
between facts and values.
Facts are statements about the real world.
They can be true or false.
Values are human creations.
They differ between different cultures.
We can debate them,
but ultimately, there is no objective arbiter
of the truth of a moral statement.
What's interesting about Sam Harris
is that although he definitely doesn't believe in God,
he does believe that statements about moral values
are ultimately objective statements.
In his view, we can discover the truth about those statements
through an ever-deeper knowledge of science --
of psychology, for example, of how human societies operate --
and the exercise of reason.
There's a lot at stake here.
If Sam Harris is wrong,
and the majority of scientists and philosophers are right,
then it's hard to see how there can be such a thing as moral progress.
If a moral system is simply the subjective values that a culture creates,
it puts a limit on how much you can argue against views you disagree with,
like the sanctity of life or child marriage.
You just have no real answer to the position,
"Look, this is what I and my family going back generations
choose to believe." 