
Daniel:
We absolutely should not ban gambling because it won't work first of all, and secondarily, there's nothing really wrong with gambling.
It should be fine, it should be legal if people want to do it.
So, let's start by talking about why banning gambling will not work at all.
So, the point of banning something, presumably, is you want to deter people from doing it because you think it has some kind of harm or problem.
So, this has an assumption and the assumption is that the ban itself is actually going to deter people from the activity in the first place, that is gambling.
So, that's not going to happen, and it's not going to happen because people have been gambling for thousands of years, people rather enjoy gambling, it's a pretty ingrained part of our culture, we have entire cities dedicated to it, you know, like there's gambling in las vegas obviously, I'm pretty sure there's a lot of gambling in places like eilat in israel as well, there's all kinds of like a lot of cities have these as their industries and things like that.
So there's problems with this.
So, first and foremost a problem is that you're going to see a whole whole lot of resistance from the people who are involved in the gambling industry, a whole lot of resistance about the cities and livelihoods that are being destroyed, and a whole lot of resistance to all of these kinds of policies and bans in the first place.
But second and more importantly, it's completely unenforceable because you can just gamble on the internet, in there's nothing really the government can do to regulate it, because oftentimes the websites can be set up in like different countries or you can even if like the websites are under like any kind of certain set of laws, you're there's always ways that you can use the internet to avoid government detection, and I highly doubt that the government is going to dedicate like legit military and hacking and all kinds of technical and physical and monetary resources to really cracking down gambling, and if it wanted to do that, it would cost like billions if not probably like like so much so many billions of dollars, that it would be a complete waste of time since people are largely going to do it on the internet anyway.
And that's obviously a problem because first and foremost, you're not making the money off of gambling anymore, you can't tax gambling, you can't profit off of it, so a lot of money in revenue is going away.
Additionally when you ban something then it becomes a part of a black market, it's more likely to be unsafe, you're more likely going to have like crime lords and people like that presiding over the factors.
And additionally you also can't have things like consumer protection laws in place, so you can't really enforce things to make sure that like, obviously gambling is random and to a large extent and things like that, but enforcement to make sure that like you aren't being as a gambler like completely screwed over by the people like the house per se, so that's important as well.
So gambling is probably going to happen anyway, might as well happen safer, more profitably, and more effectively if you just regulate it rather than ban it.
But I also think that there's nothing wrong with th- gambling and it's rather immoral to ban it in the first place, because keep in mind that when people are gambling they're usually gambling with their own money, if they're gambling with someone else's money we call them wall street bankers, so they're usually gambling with their own money not other people's, so that's money that you've earned, that's money that you can do what you want with, you should have the right to spend your money in the way you want, because you work for it.
But additionally, gambling doesn't harm anyone, it's not like I- gambling doesn't really harm people, like any kind of vague things like crime or whatever l- like maybe vaguely associated with gambling is problematic, that's usually only because the other things like drugs or prostitution or whatever are illegal in the first place, maybe that should be illegal too, but also, keep in mind that like the black market argument that I made about how that's not going to be solved anyway, so other than maybe like the vague facilitation of crime, there's no real reason why gambling itself is all that bad, why you shouldn't be able to spend your money that you earned that way if you want.
So for those reasons, we should not ban gambling.