Elliot:
Two points today: one on the market failure created by third world nations, and two, on a woman's right to her body.
Before that, a whole bunch of refutation.
One, we're told: " surrogacy is inherently exploitive " why?
A, because a woman who's never been pregnant can't understand.
Three responses to that: one, people can still choose to get pregnant for themselves, even though a woman who's never been pregnant before, supposedly can't understand the harms that it does to her body.
If that's the case, why can I do choose to do it for myself, but not for someone else?
Moreover, why can I choose to do it when the gain for myself is a child, but not when the gain for myself is the money that enables me to feed my child?
This is entirely unclear.
Two, we simply don't accept that people who can't understand it.
Sure, they don't know how to feel the pain, but, much like I don't need to have been in a car crash, to know that I don't want to experience it, that it's quite painful, women don't need to be pregnant to recognize that there are specific harms, that happen due to pregnancy, other specific harms that happen to some women, don't happen to other.
We simply don't accept that, education does not solve for this.
Lastly, even if it's true, at their worst, they can regulate to ensure that people, that the only people allowed to be surrogates are those people who have had a child before.
This is a good time to point out: we are all for regulation of surrogacy, we are all for regulating the contract, regulating the prices, regulating the participants of surrogacy.
We're simply not for banning it.
B, they say they're going to- going to be created artificially low prices.
Two responses to this: a, regulate a minimum price, that's really not a problem, but b, note that parents often, especially the kinds of parents that are being described to us, often have an incentive to pay more and more, just to get the minimally better things.
So, you can hike up the price for playing mozart at night before the baby goes to sleep, hike up the price for eating food that's better for the mother.
Anyway, this means they can get more money, and better treatment of themselves simultaneously.
C, he says: " society doesn't allow prostitution and this is the same ", two responses: a, it's not the same, the dignity of a prostitute is taken away by allowing her entire body to be owned by somebody else.
In the case of a surrogate, you maintain your ability to choose your day to day activities, to act freely as you otherwise would, and you maintain your dignity, if for no other reason than for societal perceptions.
B, note many societies do allow prostitutions, when it's done with regulation.
We're not entirely sure why they just assert it's the same, and assert it's a negative thing.
Lastly, he talks about courts, he says: a, it's difficult to decide between a mother and a contract, note that this is not the case that the surrogate as a mother, she is genetically unrelated, she carried the baby to term.
Secondly, he says, this is going to clog the courts.
A, precedent is set, once precedent is set, this doesn't get discussed for very long, and b, mh, so it clogs the courts, it's not a real issue.
Let's talk about the real issues: one, there's a market failure.
Even if you do, as james wants to, ban it in america, ban it in england, the desire to have a child genetically related to yours is enormous, it is so big that people go to places like india, people go to places like calcutta to have this done.
What does this mean?
It means that all the harms, that james is afraid of, happens tenfold there, when you can't ensure proper regulation, and where you have surrogate farms in order to sell these women at low prices to rich americans, and keep most of the gain, for essentially their pimps.
So, even if they do this, nothing is actually solve, you're just passing the buck along to more unfortunate women in worse conditions, we're going to get this done worse to them.
Secondly, we say a woman has a right to her body, that right includes deciding.
Note the logical links here, a woman today can decide to get pregnant, a woman today can decide to sell her body in labor form.
As in, you can choose to do intensive labor work, such as construction for example.
A woman today can decide to abort the child, to give it up for adoption, or to keep a child.
Where is the jump from all of these decisions she's allowed to make, to the one decision she's not, which is instead of making a child for herself, making a child for someone else?
Without properly analyzing why that defeats a woman's ability to think rationally, they simply cannot win this debate.
For all these reasons, incredibly proud to prop- to oppose.