John:
We should not legalize the coca leaf and its production.
So, three arguments for you today.
First is that legalizing production of coca leaves is going to strengthen the drug cartels.
R- right now, the drug cartels are weaker than they could otherwise be because their main source of income, cocaine, is illegal at every stage of the production process.
What that means is that it's relatively easy for police, in countries like colombia or the united states or anywhere in between, to crackdown on the cartels at almost any stage in the production process.
If you legalize the coca leaf, then what's going to happen is the drug cartels will form shell companies which will then legally grow the coca leaf, and they'll be doing nothing wrong.
And the only time we'll be able to crackdown on them will be during the transit from colombia or wherever to the united states or europe.
We think that this will make it much more difficult to prosecute their business.
Right now, we can destroy huge amounts of their capital which means that there's a huge amount of risk in being involved in the drug cartels financially.
If you legalize the coca leaf, you remove that risk and make the drug cartels a better investment.
This will lead more and more capital to flow into the drug cartels.
Why is this so bad?
The other team tried to tell you that there's no harms to cocaine, and it's used in production.
I'm going to push back on that in just a minute, but let's think about the company's, these cartels that distribute it.
They don't just sell drugs.
They also do things like human trafficking and prostitution and threaten businesses and topple governments.
We tell you that they are a huge threat to the stability of latin american countries and that they are fundamentally a humanitarian disaster.
At that point, we should do anything in our power to weaken the drug cartels, and ultimately keeping cocaine and the coca leaf illegal is a powerful way to weaken the drug cartels.
We think that we need to do more to fight back against them, that the problem with the war on drugs is the way that it's been persecuted, not the way that it actually or the fact that it actually exists.
We think that if anything, we should be doing more to go after the drug distributors and producers whereas right now, the war on drugs has focused too much on going after drug users.
Our second argument is that any benefits to this would accrue to the cartels and not to small farmers.
Because the other side tries to tell you, " oh, this will cause an economic boom. "
But we don't think that joe q public in colombia is going to make a lot of money on this.
Why?
First of all, the drug cartels don't pay people to grow cocaine for or make cocaine for them.
They force them to.
They go around to villages and tell people, " you can either help us and maybe we'll pay you, or we'll kill you. "
At the end of the day, these are not nice people, and the way that they produce cocaine is not nice.
We don't think that the benefits will accrue to ordinary people.
It'll accrue to these drug-producing oligarchs, who are some of the most evil people in the world today, who need to be stopped not helped.
Our third and final argument is that we think that the production of cocaine is normatively bad and that cocaine should remain illegal.
If you look at the effects, particularly that crack has on the communities where it's consumed, it's disastrous.
The other team tries to tell you that we should be okay with people doing whatever they want with their bodies.
That would be true if there were no third-party harms to drug consumption, but people who use crack cocaine aren't able to be productive members of society.
They shirk their duties and obligations to others.
They're not able to be parents, to be workers, to be citizens, because this drug is so much more addictive than something like alcohol or marijuana, because it's been created in a lab to be addictive, that ultimately it completely destroys the people who use it.
We think at that point, there's a pretty compelling case to ban it because of the third-party harms that it has, especially given that it's so addictive that users are driven to violent behavior in order to get money to buy more crack cocaine.
They might try to tell you that lots of people use regular cocaine in a functional way but even if that's true, regular cocaine is only part of the cocaine trade.
Ultimately, we think you have to think about the harms of crack as well in this debate.
So for these reasons, we should not legalize the coca leaf.
Thank you.