Tyler:
We should not legalize prostitution.
We think that in the status quo there are a number of abuses that are associated with prostitution whether it's the fact that pimps and johns you're able to abuse prostitutes themselves, whether it's the transmission of sexually transmitted disease through prostitution, whether it's the fact that people are oftentimes coerced into entering the prostitution market in the first place we think that legalizing prostitution is the wo- wrong way to go about alleviating these abuses and furthermore we think that when you legalize prostitution you only entrench it as a business and make it more likely that those abuses will move forward.
So firstly, we're gonna talk about why those abuses are more likely to become prevalent in a legalized prostitution market and then we're going to talk about alternatives if you actually care about alleviating those types of abuses.
So recognize that in the status quo women are often coerced into choosing or entering prostitution.
It's not a free choice.
This may be because they're experiencing economic hardship.
It may be because they've been blocked out of the employment sphere because they may have a prior conviction that doesn't allow them to get employment or they may not have the education necessary to do so and therefore they enter prostitution.
Furthermore johns and pimps can be massively abusive.
This can range from physical abuse being done against prostitutes to prostitutes being not being paid for their services.
We think that legalization is going to do a few things.
Firstly, it increases the incentive for people to enter the business and therefore just without any other changes to the structure of prostitution itself, it's more likely to increase those harms as well.
We also think it makes it harder to punch for these abuses because when you legalize prostitution you make it harder for women to go against these people because there's already a stigma against those women.
It's more difficult for a woman to go against their to go to the police and say the person that I was being a the john that I had hurt me or didn't pay me or do these types of things because there's already a massive stigma against those people and now if they go forward and ask for some sort of relief they're only going to be viewed as having some sort of casualty of j- of the job that not being paid or being abused as part of the job of prostitution.
We think it's also unlikely to drive out illicit business.
So we think that in the status quo prostitution is obviously a mostly illicit business.
It's mostly done underground.
The structures that allow for that type business to exist, that black market to exist, aren't undermined by the legalization of prostitution.
We think that there are different types of there are different levels to the prostitution market that exists.
There are high class and there are street prostitutes and we don't think that legalization is going to alleviate the largely illicit street level market that exists in the status quo because most people simply will not be able to access the higher end market.
So what do we think is more likely to occur?
Oh furthermore, we think that you're only going to perpetuate the historical practice of objectifying women.
We think that while women are able to choose prostitution sometimes, as I explained, it's largely a coerced a coercion based business, a business in which women are coerced into entering and it only perpetuates the objectification of women and the use of women solely for their bodies.
We think this is a historical pattern that exists throughout western, eastern, all cultures and we don't think that legalization makes it any less likely that this is going to s- it makes it any more likely that this is going to stop.
As such, we think it's simply the case that when you legalize you continue to perpetuate these patriarchal ideas of objectification in a hyper-sexualization of women.
We think that a better avenue would be to increase protections for prostitutes, to create laws that punish johns and punish pimps but don't punish prostitutes because this ensures that the coercive structures that abuse women in the status quo, are able to be legislated against.
They are able to be struck down rather than legalizing the market and making it easier for people to do these types of bu- of abuses in broad daylight.
It increases the objectification of women which is already a problem in our modern society.
For these reasons, we should not legalize prostitution.